[Music]
okay question for you have you ever
tried to sell something online and did
you succeed at it or maybe you had a
hard time selling the watch grandma gave
you for your graduation that you put on
sale because of a personal financial
crisis well don't worry
you'll be much better at ecommerce once
you know the secrets of the trade
counting down from number 12 determine
the best price when you pick a price off
the wall the buyer will notice it and
think twice before even clicking on your
ad you see unless you produce unique
unicorn tear soda there'll always be
competition on any website or app you
use even if you add professional
pictures of your item and write a
description that's worth a bullet
surprised people will still look at the
price tag if you're trying to sell
something that's really common
prospective buyers will scroll through
hundreds of similar products and most of
them are sorted by prices from low to
high if you land at the top of this
pyramid chances are people won't even
see your product so aim for the happy
medium or if you really want to sell the
item ASAP set a price that's way lower
than the competitors remember the price
you name shouldn't be higher than 50 to
60 percent of the market price because
who'd want to buy a used item at the
price of a new one
number 11 pick the right timing Tuesday
Wednesday Thursday and Sunday evenings
are the best times to post your ad
online because a lot of people are
casually browsing at this time payday
weekends are also a good time to put
stuff for sale if you're trying to sell
something at an online auction
remember that auctions ending after
midnight are the worst bidders normally
get more active in the final hours or
even minutes of the option and not many
of them will stay up until midnight to
buy that camera of yours try to plan
postings so that the auction ends
between 7 and 9 p.m. on weekdays or
Sunday when internet browsing activity
peaks and avoid Friday and Saturday
evening when a lot of people are out
number ten think seasonal would you
personally shop for a pair of skis in
July or November similarly you're more
likely to buy summer clothes in May than
in October unless you live in a tropical
climate I think you get the logic behind
this there's a reasonable time for every
item and you might have to plan and wait
but it'll be worth it in the end if you
can't wait to put up an item that's out
of season be prepared to get way less
money for it computer accessories auto
parts and similar items that are
considered functional never go out of
season
number 9 create a trustworthy profile
people are more likely to buy from a
seller they can trust so pick a simple
and professional-looking user name
anodyne t5 sounds better than fluffy
kitten 95 in this case if you're
planning to sell a certain kind of stuff
you could include it in your user name
if you're friendly with your buyers
they'll most likely leave you positive
feedback if you're just starting out on
a website like eBay you can build a good
history if you buy stuff from other
sellers and leave them positive feedback
it might be a little investment worth
making number eight add a bonus
everybody loves gifts marketers have
long used this trick to sell products
that aren't exactly the most popular a
free gift or a bonus increases the value
of the purchase in the eyes of the buyer
it'll also work if the supply of a
certain item is too abundant for example
when you're selling a laptop offer a
flash drive or headphones as a gift a
toy would go well with children's
clothes and so on be sure to mention the
bonus in the beginning of your ad number
seven try selling in groups this trick
works especially well for clothes try
bundling a few similar things up like a
perfect summer outfit or five t-shirts
for a three-year-old the buyer will like
the idea of getting more than one item
at a good price number six
let the buyer bargain a price that looks
too low may alert the buyer they may
wonder
if the item is defective or not as good
as you're saying it is so if you're
ready to sell stuff at a rather low
price set a higher one and mention
you're open to bargaining this
catchphrase often attracts even those
people who didn't plan on buying this or
that item when you agree to a lower
price you'll make your buyer happy and
get just as much money as you plan to in
the beginning number five consider
shipping costs the internet brings
together people from different regions
and parts of the world so quite often
sellers have to ship stuff to buyers who
are miles away as you place your app
think over the delivery who will cover
the shipping costs or courier services
make sure to mention these details in
the description or discuss them with
prospective buyers before sealing the
deal to avoid unpleasant surprises
number four never agree to put a hold on
something if you've ever tried to sell
something online you've most likely come
across buyers who ask you to put a hold
on your dress until tomorrow Monday
their next pay day and on and on and on
you can choose to be kind and caring and
wait on them but realize they don't
actually have any obligations and can
easily change their mind and not buy
that dress two days later in online
sales time plays against you if there's
a person who wants to buy the product
immediately then sell it to them and
don't feel guilty about the fact that
you refuse someone who asks you to wait
on them number three work on product
description a product description can
make or break the deal so you'd better
make it a masterpiece brief but to the
point and tightly packed with keywords
think like a buyer well would you want
to know about the product before you
purchase it mentioning detailed
measurements and the condition of your
product is a must otherwise people will
call you and message you to ask for this
info or ignore your ad altogether what
you can skip is why you decided to sell
the product it's pretty obvious in 99%
of all cases that you just made money
work on a catchy title and on a really
professional-looking description
avoid spelling mistakes and typos and
don't use caps lock or emojis it looks
unprofessional don't neglect formatting
proper structuring matters be honest and
mention any defects the product has
still make buyers start a scandal once
they get a surprisingly defective item
later if you still have the original
packaging tags and manuals tell the
buyers about them you can justify a
higher price if that's the case you can
use professional acronyms such as VGC
very good condition bien
brand new and so on list your item in
the right category or even a few
different ones as long as it fits if you
misplace the item you'll make it much
harder for a prospective buyer to find
it number 2 take some really good photos
remember how you picked a hotel on a
booking site because it looked great in
pictures and then it turned out to be
pretty much like all the others nearby
the same rule will work for your items I
don't recommend you photoshop the stuff
you're trying to sell but a good picture
of an item is key to success look at
websites and ads for inspiration and try
taking a lot of good-looking pictures
from different angles if you're trying
to sell some clothing iron it before you
start the photo shoot and make sure the
labels and price tags get in the shot if
you're selling electronics also take
pictures of warranty cards and manuals
if you still have them be honest and
take pictures of defects if any this
will save you lots of time you'd have to
spend answering the questions about how
big that crack you mentioned in the
description is if you can't take
professional pictures just take some
shots off manufacturers websites they
always stand out among tons of blurry
photographs number one follow safety
rules every website that allows users to
sell stuff online has its safety rules
so when it suggests that you read them
don't ignore the opportunity tips that
work all the time are pretty standard
don't disclose your personal information
if you're arranging a meeting with a
buyer choose a public place or ask your
friends to join you and don't invite
strangers
into your home to take a look at the
product you're selling if you're selling
a gadget take a picture of the serial
number some people replace the purchase
product with a broken one and then
return it to the seller as a result the
seller loses money and goods now how
about you do you often sell stuff you
don't need online let me know down in
the comments if you learn something new
today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go trying to
sell grandma's Harley on eBay just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life